Hi how are you doing, Justin here again
and we're starting stage 3.
And as usual we're starting off with a look at a new chord,
and the chord that we're gonna be doing in this video
is the G chord.
A G chord is a little bit stretchy compared to
the other chords that we've looked at so far.
It got notes on opposites sides of the neck to each other
and personally I found G chord really really hard
when I was learning.
I was only pretty little when I was learning
and my fingers were pretty short.
But it's still possible no matter how little you are,
it's still possible to play a G chord,
but it is gonna be a little bit stretchy.
So let's get to a close up and have a look at this new chord.
Okay, so here's the close look at our G chord.
And as you can see we've got this bit of a strech here
between the second and third finger.
That's the nasty bit I was talking about there.
So it's not too hard, but it's a fairly difficult chord
when you first start,
at least I found it was.
So let's go through one bit at a time.
First of all: first finger, second fret, fifth string,
not particularly difficult that one,
reaching over now, second finger, third fret, sixth string,
now making sure that's nice and round
and that you're using the fingertip.
If it's too flat, you'll be muting all the strings.
And then here with the third finger is having to go down
on the thinnest string at the third fret.
Now there's quite a few common problems with this one.
First of all, a lot of people have trouble with
positioning that third finger.
They're either like this, where it's too round
and the finger is kind of pushing down.
That's gonna be pushing the string off
and the fingernails are gonna be getting in the way.
The solution here is bringing those knuckles
back around a little bit,
so they're back underneath the fingerboard a little bit more,
that should straighten that finger up.
At the same time it's very important
that this one is round enough
not to be muting all of those notes underneath,
because we really need to be getting
those three strings in the middle open.
So making sure that it's not this, that's the other
common thing, it's this finger being too flat
So make sure that's nice and round.
Now if we go through and play one note at a time,
as you know that you should when you pratice,
. . .
first note shouldn't be a problem.
I can't imagine why you might have a trouble with that note.
. . .
Second note:
Sometimes this is a problem
because the second finger here
is touching the fifth string just at that point.
So that's quite common for that to be happening,
but it's not right.
You need to get that second finger rounder
to free up that fifth string.
Now the next string,
. . .
the D string,
if it sounds like this,
. . .
and it's not ringing out properly,
it's cause the underneath of the first finger is to blame.
So again you need to get the first finger
working on to its tip a little bit more.
. . .
G and the B strings are usually okay with this chord,
and then we've just got to make sure that that note is good.
Some people for some reason try
and put their third finger right back far away from the fret.
I don't exactly know what causes that,
but it's definitely not a good idea.
But if you remember me talking before
about trying to lift up this part of your hand
and kind of twisting your palm that way,
that can help, if you think of that a little bit
to try and keep your fingers nice and round.
Well, I hope you have fun playing G.
It definitely was a struggle for me,
but it's a really really used chord.
It's one of the five most basic shapes on guitar,
one that you really can't avoid.
So spend a bit of time working on that G chord,
it really is a cool one.
There's quite a few different ways of playing G
that you may have already seen from other people
or other courses or you've seen your friends
playing another way.
I'm gonna go through that in one of the later stages,
I'll show you all of the different variations
of playing an open G chord.
But this is really the one that I would recommend
that you start off with.
There are other facts that I don't wanna go into
that make it kind of a really good one to learn.
In fact now I'm gonna go into it,
it makes... it helps you develop your stretch
between your second and third finger.
If you try and do a G chord with two notes on the thin string,
it kind of means you're not
getting as good as stretch in between those fingers.
So try and stick to this way of playing the G chord for now
and we will be covering the other ones later.
So now on to the last difficult open chord.
The last of the big eight which is the C chord.
And that's even stretchier.